README.md, before:

<h1 align=center>CS 122: <em>Computer Programming II</em></h1>

<h2 align=center>Pace University Seidenberg School of Computer Science & Information Systems</h2>

<h3 align=center>Spring 2025</h3>

---

### Sections

1. [**Course Description**](#course-description)
2. [**Required Materials**](#required-materials)
3. [**Instructor**](#instructor)
4. [**Course Schedule**](#course-schedule)
5. [**Final Grade Breakdown**](#final-grade-breakdown)
6. [**Lecture Notes**](#lecture-notes)
7. [**University Resources and Policies**](#university-resources-and-policies)
    - [**Procedure for Students Who Wish to Obtain Reasonable Accommodations for a Course**](#procedure-for-students-who-wish-to-obtain-reasonable-accommodations-for-a-course)
    - [**Technological Resources**](#technological-resources)
    - [**Appropriate Use Policy for Information Technology**](#appropriate-use-policy-for-information-technology)
    - [**Sex-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure**](#sex-based-misconduct-policy-and-procedure)
    - [**Self-Care**](#self-care)

---

### Course Description

<h5 align=center><em>Tuesday and Thursday, 10:05 am - 12:05 pm at 15 Beekman Street 15BK 804</em></h5>

This is the advanced level Java programming class following the Python programming class CS121. 

The course topics cover Java classes, data types, loop and conditional statements, Java packages, abstract classes, interfaces, inheritance, UML, polymorphism, exceptions, and recursion. Multi-threading and thread synchronization will be introduced too. 

Students will get hands-on experience on coding and problem-solving through homework assignments, labs, and exams.

<br>

### Required Materials

- Java Software Development Kit (SDK)
- [**Visual Studio Code**](https://code.visualstudio.com/), or any other Java programming environment you feel comfortable using. You _must_ disable any genAI code-completion services from VSCode for the remainder of this course.
- **Optional Reference**: Java Software Solutions, 9th edition (or 8th or 7th), Lewis and Loftus, Pearson 9th ed. ISBN 978-0-134-46202-8.

<br>

### Instructor

[**Sebastián Romero Cruz**](https://github.com/sebastianromerocruz)  _(They / Them)_

| **E-Mail**                                                | **Office Hours**                                    |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| [**sromerocruz@pace.edu**](mailto:sromerocruz@pace.edu)   | [**calendly**](https://calendly.com/profromerocruz) |

<br>

### Course Schedule

#### Calendar

Although I don't anticipate any major changes to this, the following is subject to some minor adjustments throughout the semester:

| **Week**    | **Topic**                                   | **Assignment**              |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| **Week 1**  | Syllabus Review, VSCode Setup, Command Line | Labs 1 % 2                  |
| **Week 2**  | Data and Expressions                        | Labs 3 & 4 / Assignment 1   |
| **Week 3**  | Conditionals and Loops                      | Labs 5 & 6                  |
| **Week 4**  | Classes                                     | Labs 7 & 8 / Assignment 2   |
| **Week 5**  | Object-Oriented Design                      | Labs 9 & 10                 |
| **Week 6**  | Arrays                                      | Labs 11 & 12 / Assignment 3 |
| **Week 7**  | Review and Midterm 1                        |                             |
| **Week 8**  | Inheritance                                 | Labs 13 & 14                |
| **Week 9**  | _Spring Break_                              |                             |
| **Week 10** | Polymorphism                                | Labs 15 & 16                |
| **Week 11** | Exceptions                                  | Labs 17 & 18 / Assignment 4 |
| **Week 12** | Recursion                                   | Labs 19 & 20                |
| **Week 13** | Review and Midterm 2                        | Assignment 5                |
| **Week 14** | Collections, Vectors, and Multi-Threading   | Labs 21 & 22                |
| **Week 15** | Multi-Threading                             | Labs 21 & 22                |
| **Week 15** | Review and Final Exam                       |                             |

#### Important Dates

| Date                  | Event         |
|-----------------------|---------------|
| Midterm I             | March 6       |
| Async Lecture         | March 11      |
| Withdrawal Deadline   | March 17      |
| Online Lecture        | March 25 & 27 |
| Midterm II            | April 17      |
| Async Lecture         | April 22      |
| Final Exam            | May 8         |

<br>

### Final Grade Breakdown

|                        | **Percentage** |
|------------------------|----------------|
| **Homework**           | 20%            |
| **Labs**               | 20%            |
| **Lowest Exam Score**  | 15%            |
| **Median Exam Score**  | 20%            |
| **Highest Exam Score** | 25%            |

- **Labs**: Labs are short programs assigned on the second half of nearly every lecture. 
  - These may be done collaboratively with other students, though each of you must turn in your own work. Labs will be done during the second half of our allotted lecture time and must be completed by the end of class and submitted on Classes for full credit.
  - You _must_ be present during lab time in order to receive credit. Unless previously excused, you will receive a 0 on any submitted work if you were not present.
  - You _must_ work on lab during this allotted time. Work on any coursework not related to this class is strictly forbidden.
  - It's entirely possible that you don't finish lab during the allotted time. As long as you finish half of it, you'll be fine.
- **Homework**: Assigned throughout the semester, homework assignments are to be completed independently, outside class 
time. Assignments will be distributed and submitted on Classes. Never submit your assignment by email or on paper; only homework submitted on Classes will be accepted.  Your grade reflects to
  what extent your solution is correct, both functionally and stylistically.
  - There will be a total of 5 homework assignments this semester, each covering the past 2-3 weeks of material. 
  - **Note**: _Plagiarism or academic dishonesty will, at least, result in a zero for the assignment for the first offense, and failure of the course for subsequent offenses._
  - ***It is important that the work required by the course is yours. You should not use ChatGPT or other AI tools for any purpose other than idea generation.***
- **Exams**: Midterm exams will happen twice during the semester, plus the final exam. Note that your most successful 
exam carries more weight toward your final grade than the other exams. Do not miss a test unless a (documentable) emergency prevents your participation.

We will be following the same grading scale as last semester:

| **Letter Grade** | **A**  | **A-** | **B+** | **B** | **B-** | **C+** | **C** | **C-** | **D+** | **D** | **F** |
|------------------|--------|--------|--------|-------|--------|--------|-------|--------|--------|-------|-------|
| **Range**        | 93-100 | 90-93  | 87-90  | 83-87 | 80-83  | 77-80  | 70-77 | 67-70  | 63-67  | 60-63 | 0-60  |

<br>

### Lecture Notes

#### **Introduction To Java**

1. [**Introduction**](src/01-intro/)
<!-- 2. [**Hello, JDK: _The Terminal / Command Line and The Java Compiler_**](src/02-setup-command-line/)
3. [**Variables and Constants**](src/03-variables-constants/)
4. [**Arithmetic Operators and User Input**](src/04-expressions/)
5. [**Selections**](src/05-selections/)
6. [**Loops**](src/06-loops/)
7. [**Static Methods**](src/07-static-methods/)
8. [**Return Types**](src/08-return/)
9. [**Arrays: Basics**](src/09-arrays-1/)
10. [**Arrays: Memory, 2D Arrays, and Binary Search**](src/10-arrays-2/)
11. [**Object-Oriented Design**](src/11-class-design/)
12. [**Midterm I Review**](src/12-midterm-1-review/) -->

#### **Object-Oriented Programming**

<!-- 13. [**Inheritance**](src/13-inheritance/)
14. [**Method Overriding and Abstract Classes**](src/14-abstract-classes/)
15. [**Method Overloading and Interfaces**](src/15-interfaces/)
16. [**Polymorphism: _Inheritance_**](src/16-polymorphism-inheritance/)
17. [**Polymorphism: _Interfaces_**](src/17-polymorphism-interfaces/)
18. [**Exceptions: _`try`-`except` Blocks_**](src/18-exceptions-try-catch/)
19. [**Exceptions: _The `Throwable` Class_**](src/19-exceptions-throwable/)
20. [**Midterm II Review**](src/20-midterm-2-review/) -->

#### **Advanced Concepts**

<!-- 21. [**Recursion**](src/21-recursion/)
22. [**Collections**](src/22-collections/)
23. [**Final Exam Review**](src/23-final-review) -->

<br>

### Academic Integrity Code

Students in this course are required to adhere to Pace University's Academic Integrity Code. The Academic Integrity Code supports honesty and ethical conduct in the educational process. It educates students about what constitutes academic misconduct, helps to deter cheating and plagiarism, and provides a procedure for handling cases of academic misconduct. Students are expected to be familiar with the Code, which can be found under "University Policies" in the [**Student Handbook**](https://www.pace.edu/student-handbook).

<br>

### University Resources and Policies

#### Procedure for Students Who Wish to Obtain Reasonable Accommodations for a Course

The University's commitment to equal educational opportunities for students with disabilities includes providing reasonable accommodations for the needs of students with disabilities. To request a reasonable accommodation for a qualified disability a student with a disability must self-identify and register with Student Accessibility Services for his or her campus. No one, including faculty, is authorized to evaluate the need for or grant a request for an accommodation except Student Accessibility Services. Moreover, no one, including faculty, is authorized to contact Student Accessibility Services on behalf of a student. For further information, please see the [**Resources for Students with Disabilities**](https://www.pace.edu/student-accessibility-services) page.

#### Technological Resources

- List of all [**Pace Information Technology Services**](https://www.pace.edu/its).
- For assistance with a technological concern (Classes, Internet, Computer, etc.), contact the Pace Helpdesk at 914-773-3648 or create a [**help desk ticket**](https://helpdesk.pace.edu/TDClient/213/Portal/Home/).

#### Appropriate Use Policy for Information Technology

Pace endorses the following statement on software and intellectual rights distributed by EDUCAUSE, the non-profit consortium of colleges and universities, committed to the use and management of information technology in higher education. The statement reads:

> _Respect for intellectual labor and creativity is vital to academic discourse and enterprise. This principle applies to work of all authors and publishers in all media. It encompasses respect for the right to acknowledgment, right to privacy and right to determine the form, manner and terms of publication and distribution._
>
> Because electronic information is volatile and easily reproduced, respect for the work and personal expression of others is especially critical in computer environments. Violations of authorial integrity, including plagiarism, invasion of privacy, unauthorized access and trade secret and copyright violations, may be grounds for sanctions against members of the academic community.

[**Pace’s appropriate use policy**](https://www.pace.edu/its/about-its/it-policies/it-appropriate-use-policy) applies to recordings of classroom instruction and digital artifacts created by faculty and students.

#### Sex-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure

Pace University is committed to providing a safe environment for every member of its community and to ensuring that no student, faculty or staff member is excluded from participation in or denied the benefits of any University program or ac:vity on the basis of sex. Accordingly, the University prohibits the following forms of Sex-Based Misconduct: sexual assault, sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, da:ng violence, domes:c violence, sexual exploitation and stalking.

Instructors are a non-confidential resource and have an obligation to report any information about sexual assault with Ms. Lisa Miles, Executive Director of Institutional Equity and Title IX Coordinator (163 Williams Street, Room 1017, 212-346-1310, [**amiles@pace.edu**](mailto:amiles@pace.edu)). The Title IX/Affirmative Action Office is responsible for investigating violations of the sexual misconduct policy. For more information about the Pace University sexual misconduct policy, see the [**Sex-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure**](https://www.pace.edu/sites/default/files/2022-04/sexual-assault-guide.pdf) (PDF).

Members of the University community who believe that they have been subjected to Sex-Based Misconduct are encouraged to report such incidents to the University and, where applicable, to local law enforcement. **Confidential** resources include the **University Counseling Centers, Offices of Sexual and Interpersonal Wellness** and **University Healthcare**. Contact information for those offices may be found in the self-care section below.

#### Self-Care

Your academic success in this course and throughout your college career depends heavily on your personal health and well-being. Stress is a common part of the college experience, and it often can be compounded by unexpected life changes outside the classroom. The Pace Community strongly encourages you to take care of yourself throughout the term, before the demands of midterms and finals reach their peak. Please feel free to talk with me about any difficulty you may be having that may impact your performance in this course as soon as it occurs and before it becomes unmanageable. Please know there are a number of other support services on campus that stand ready to assist you. I strongly encourage you to contact them when needed.

| Department                                  | Pleasantville | New York City |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Counseling Center                           | 914-773-3710  | 212-346-1526  |
| Dean for Students Office                    | 914-773-3351  | 212-346-1306  |
| Health Care Unit                            | 914-773-3760  | 212-346-1600  |
| Residential Life                            | 914-923-2791  | 212-346-1295  |
| Student Development and Campus Activities   | 914-773-3861  | 212-346-1590  |
| Office of Multicultural Affairs & Diversity | 914-773-3775  | 212-346-1563  |
| Sexual Assault Prevention & Education       | 914-597-8783  | 212-346-1931  |

| Academic Advisement                         |               |               |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Advising Center For Exploring Majors        | 914-773-3847  | 212-346-1798  |
| College of Health Professions               | 914-773-3961  | 914-773-3552  |
| Dyson College                               | 914-773-3781  | 212-346-1518  |
| International Student / Scholars            | 914-773-3425  | 212-346-1368  |
| Lubin School of Business                    | 914-773-3531  | 212-618-6550  |
| Pforzheimer Honors College                  | 914-773-3941  | 212-346-1697  |
| Seidenberg School                           | 914-773-3254  | 212-346-1864  |
| Studying Abroad                             | 914-773-3447  | 212-346-1368  |

Commit message:

Set up for first day of class

README.md, after:

<h1 align=center>CS 122: <em>Computer Programming II</em></h1>

<h2 align=center>Pace University Seidenberg School of Computer Science & Information Systems</h2>

<h3 align=center>Spring 2025</h3>

---

### Sections

1. [**Course Description**](#course-description)
2. [**Required Materials**](#required-materials)
3. [**Instructor**](#instructor)
4. [**Course Schedule**](#course-schedule)
5. [**Final Grade Breakdown**](#final-grade-breakdown)
6. [**Lecture Notes**](#lecture-notes)
7. [**University Resources and Policies**](#university-resources-and-policies)
    - [**Procedure for Students Who Wish to Obtain Reasonable Accommodations for a Course**](#procedure-for-students-who-wish-to-obtain-reasonable-accommodations-for-a-course)
    - [**Technological Resources**](#technological-resources)
    - [**Appropriate Use Policy for Information Technology**](#appropriate-use-policy-for-information-technology)
    - [**Sex-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure**](#sex-based-misconduct-policy-and-procedure)
    - [**Self-Care**](#self-care)

---

### Course Description

<h5 align=center><em>Tuesday and Thursday, 10:05 am - 12:05 pm at 15 Beekman Street 15BK 804</em></h5>

This is the advanced level Java programming class following the Python programming class CS121. 

The course topics cover Java classes, data types, loop and conditional statements, Java packages, abstract classes, interfaces, inheritance, UML, polymorphism, exceptions, and recursion. Multi-threading and thread synchronization will be introduced too. 

Students will get hands-on experience on coding and problem-solving through homework assignments, labs, and exams.

<br>

### Required Materials

- Java Software Development Kit (SDK)
- [**Visual Studio Code**](https://code.visualstudio.com/), or any other Java programming environment you feel comfortable using. You _must_ disable any genAI code-completion services from VSCode for the remainder of this course.
- **Optional Reference**: Java Software Solutions, 9th edition (or 8th or 7th), Lewis and Loftus, Pearson 9th ed. ISBN 978-0-134-46202-8.

<br>

### Instructor

[**Sebastián Romero Cruz**](https://github.com/sebastianromerocruz)  _(They / Them)_

| **E-Mail**                                                | **Office Hours**                                    |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| [**sromerocruz@pace.edu**](mailto:sromerocruz@pace.edu)   | [**calendly**](https://calendly.com/profromerocruz) |

<br>

### Course Schedule

#### Calendar

Although I don't anticipate any major changes to this, the following is subject to some minor adjustments throughout the semester:

| **Week**    | **Topic**                                   | **Assignment**              |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| **Week 1**  | Syllabus Review, VSCode Setup, Command Line | Labs 1 % 2                  |
| **Week 2**  | Data and Expressions                        | Labs 3 & 4 / Assignment 1   |
| **Week 3**  | Conditionals and Loops                      | Labs 5 & 6                  |
| **Week 4**  | Classes                                     | Labs 7 & 8 / Assignment 2   |
| **Week 5**  | Object-Oriented Design                      | Labs 9 & 10                 |
| **Week 6**  | Arrays                                      | Labs 11 & 12 / Assignment 3 |
| **Week 7**  | Review and Midterm 1                        |                             |
| **Week 8**  | Inheritance                                 | Labs 13 & 14                |
| **Week 9**  | _Spring Break_                              |                             |
| **Week 10** | Polymorphism                                | Labs 15 & 16                |
| **Week 11** | Exceptions                                  | Labs 17 & 18 / Assignment 4 |
| **Week 12** | Recursion                                   | Labs 19 & 20                |
| **Week 13** | Review and Midterm 2                        | Assignment 5                |
| **Week 14** | Collections, Vectors, and Multi-Threading   | Labs 21 & 22                |
| **Week 15** | Multi-Threading                             | Labs 21 & 22                |
| **Week 15** | Review and Final Exam                       |                             |

#### Important Dates

| Date                  | Event         |
|-----------------------|---------------|
| Midterm I             | March 6       |
| Async Lecture         | March 11      |
| Withdrawal Deadline   | March 17      |
| Online Lecture        | March 25 & 27 |
| Midterm II            | April 17      |
| Async Lecture         | April 22      |
| Final Exam            | May 8         |

<br>

### Final Grade Breakdown

|                        | **Percentage**   |
|------------------------|------------------|
| **Homework**           | 0%               |
| **Labs**               | 20%              |
| **Lowest Exam Score**  | 21%              |
| **Median Exam Score**  | 27%              |
| **Highest Exam Score** | 32%              |

- **Homework**: Assigned throughout the semester, homework assignments are totally optional, but great ways to prepare yourself for exams. 
  - Assignments will be distributed on Classes.
  - There will be a total of 5 homework assignments this semester, each covering the past 2-3 weeks of material. 
  - Solutions to each assignment will be provided after their respective deadlines.
- **Labs**: Labs are short programs assigned on the second half of nearly every lecture. 
  - These may be done collaboratively with other students, though each of you must turn in your own work. Labs will be done during the second half of our allotted lecture time and must be completed by the end of class and submitted on Classes for full credit.
  - You _must_ be present during lab time in order to receive credit. Unless previously excused, you will receive a 0 on any submitted work if you were not present.
  - You _must_ work on lab during this allotted time. Work on any coursework not related to this class is strictly forbidden.
  - It's entirely possible that you don't finish lab during the allotted time. As long as you finish half of it, you'll be fine.
- **Exams**: Midterm exams will happen twice during the semester, plus the final exam. Note that your most successful 
exam carries more weight toward your final grade than the other exams. Do not miss a test unless a (documentable) emergency prevents your participation.

We will be following the same grading scale as last semester:

| **Letter Grade** | **A**  | **A-** | **B+** | **B** | **B-** | **C+** | **C** | **C-** | **D+** | **D** | **F** |
|------------------|--------|--------|--------|-------|--------|--------|-------|--------|--------|-------|-------|
| **Range**        | 93-100 | 90-93  | 87-90  | 83-87 | 80-83  | 77-80  | 70-77 | 67-70  | 63-67  | 60-63 | 0-60  |

<br>

### Lecture Notes

#### **Introduction To Java**

1. [**Introduction**](src/01-intro/)
<!-- 2. [**Hello, JDK: _The Terminal / Command Line and The Java Compiler_**](src/02-setup-command-line/)
3. [**Variables and Constants**](src/03-variables-constants/)
4. [**Arithmetic Operators and User Input**](src/04-expressions/)
5. [**Selections**](src/05-selections/)
6. [**Loops**](src/06-loops/)
7. [**Static Methods**](src/07-static-methods/)
8. [**Return Types**](src/08-return/)
9. [**Arrays: Basics**](src/09-arrays-1/)
10. [**Arrays: Memory, 2D Arrays, and Binary Search**](src/10-arrays-2/)
11. [**Object-Oriented Design**](src/11-class-design/)
12. [**Midterm I Review**](src/12-midterm-1-review/) -->

#### **Object-Oriented Programming**

<!-- 13. [**Inheritance**](src/13-inheritance/)
14. [**Method Overriding and Abstract Classes**](src/14-abstract-classes/)
15. [**Method Overloading and Interfaces**](src/15-interfaces/)
16. [**Polymorphism: _Inheritance_**](src/16-polymorphism-inheritance/)
17. [**Polymorphism: _Interfaces_**](src/17-polymorphism-interfaces/)
18. [**Exceptions: _`try`-`except` Blocks_**](src/18-exceptions-try-catch/)
19. [**Exceptions: _The `Throwable` Class_**](src/19-exceptions-throwable/)
20. [**Midterm II Review**](src/20-midterm-2-review/) -->

#### **Advanced Concepts**

<!-- 21. [**Recursion**](src/21-recursion/)
22. [**Collections**](src/22-collections/)
23. [**Final Exam Review**](src/23-final-review) -->

<br>

### Academic Integrity Code

Students in this course are required to adhere to Pace University's Academic Integrity Code. The Academic Integrity Code supports honesty and ethical conduct in the educational process. It educates students about what constitutes academic misconduct, helps to deter cheating and plagiarism, and provides a procedure for handling cases of academic misconduct. Students are expected to be familiar with the Code, which can be found under "University Policies" in the [**Student Handbook**](https://www.pace.edu/student-handbook).

<br>

### University Resources and Policies

#### Procedure for Students Who Wish to Obtain Reasonable Accommodations for a Course

The University's commitment to equal educational opportunities for students with disabilities includes providing reasonable accommodations for the needs of students with disabilities. To request a reasonable accommodation for a qualified disability a student with a disability must self-identify and register with Student Accessibility Services for his or her campus. No one, including faculty, is authorized to evaluate the need for or grant a request for an accommodation except Student Accessibility Services. Moreover, no one, including faculty, is authorized to contact Student Accessibility Services on behalf of a student. For further information, please see the [**Resources for Students with Disabilities**](https://www.pace.edu/student-accessibility-services) page.

#### Technological Resources

- List of all [**Pace Information Technology Services**](https://www.pace.edu/its).
- For assistance with a technological concern (Classes, Internet, Computer, etc.), contact the Pace Helpdesk at 914-773-3648 or create a [**help desk ticket**](https://helpdesk.pace.edu/TDClient/213/Portal/Home/).

#### Appropriate Use Policy for Information Technology

Pace endorses the following statement on software and intellectual rights distributed by EDUCAUSE, the non-profit consortium of colleges and universities, committed to the use and management of information technology in higher education. The statement reads:

> _Respect for intellectual labor and creativity is vital to academic discourse and enterprise. This principle applies to work of all authors and publishers in all media. It encompasses respect for the right to acknowledgment, right to privacy and right to determine the form, manner and terms of publication and distribution._
>
> Because electronic information is volatile and easily reproduced, respect for the work and personal expression of others is especially critical in computer environments. Violations of authorial integrity, including plagiarism, invasion of privacy, unauthorized access and trade secret and copyright violations, may be grounds for sanctions against members of the academic community.

[**Pace’s appropriate use policy**](https://www.pace.edu/its/about-its/it-policies/it-appropriate-use-policy) applies to recordings of classroom instruction and digital artifacts created by faculty and students.

#### Sex-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure

Pace University is committed to providing a safe environment for every member of its community and to ensuring that no student, faculty or staff member is excluded from participation in or denied the benefits of any University program or ac:vity on the basis of sex. Accordingly, the University prohibits the following forms of Sex-Based Misconduct: sexual assault, sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, da:ng violence, domes:c violence, sexual exploitation and stalking.

Instructors are a non-confidential resource and have an obligation to report any information about sexual assault with Ms. Lisa Miles, Executive Director of Institutional Equity and Title IX Coordinator (163 Williams Street, Room 1017, 212-346-1310, [**amiles@pace.edu**](mailto:amiles@pace.edu)). The Title IX/Affirmative Action Office is responsible for investigating violations of the sexual misconduct policy. For more information about the Pace University sexual misconduct policy, see the [**Sex-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure**](https://www.pace.edu/sites/default/files/2022-04/sexual-assault-guide.pdf) (PDF).

Members of the University community who believe that they have been subjected to Sex-Based Misconduct are encouraged to report such incidents to the University and, where applicable, to local law enforcement. **Confidential** resources include the **University Counseling Centers, Offices of Sexual and Interpersonal Wellness** and **University Healthcare**. Contact information for those offices may be found in the self-care section below.

#### Self-Care

Your academic success in this course and throughout your college career depends heavily on your personal health and well-being. Stress is a common part of the college experience, and it often can be compounded by unexpected life changes outside the classroom. The Pace Community strongly encourages you to take care of yourself throughout the term, before the demands of midterms and finals reach their peak. Please feel free to talk with me about any difficulty you may be having that may impact your performance in this course as soon as it occurs and before it becomes unmanageable. Please know there are a number of other support services on campus that stand ready to assist you. I strongly encourage you to contact them when needed.

| Department                                  | Pleasantville | New York City |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Counseling Center                           | 914-773-3710  | 212-346-1526  |
| Dean for Students Office                    | 914-773-3351  | 212-346-1306  |
| Health Care Unit                            | 914-773-3760  | 212-346-1600  |
| Residential Life                            | 914-923-2791  | 212-346-1295  |
| Student Development and Campus Activities   | 914-773-3861  | 212-346-1590  |
| Office of Multicultural Affairs & Diversity | 914-773-3775  | 212-346-1563  |
| Sexual Assault Prevention & Education       | 914-597-8783  | 212-346-1931  |

| Academic Advisement                         |               |               |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Advising Center For Exploring Majors        | 914-773-3847  | 212-346-1798  |
| College of Health Professions               | 914-773-3961  | 914-773-3552  |
| Dyson College                               | 914-773-3781  | 212-346-1518  |
| International Student / Scholars            | 914-773-3425  | 212-346-1368  |
| Lubin School of Business                    | 914-773-3531  | 212-618-6550  |
| Pforzheimer Honors College                  | 914-773-3941  | 212-346-1697  |
| Seidenberg School                           | 914-773-3254  | 212-346-1864  |
| Studying Abroad                             | 914-773-3447  | 212-346-1368  |
